---
layout: fellow
team-member-name: Charlie Winward
job-role: Fellow in Clinical AI, Cohort 3
---
### Fellowship Bio
I am a consultant physiotherapist in neuro-rehabilitation at Oxford University Hospitals NHS Trust. I am work clinically and as a researcher. I am a member of the Subject Access data Review Committee for the Secure Data Environment in Thames Valley and Surrey. 
### Fellowship Project
##### _Deployment of Chest X-ray AI_
##### Oxford University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust

The AI Deployment Platform project aimed to integrate advanced AI technologies into clinical workflows to enhance diagnostic accuracy and efficiency. Led by Dr. Sarim Ather and Dr. Alex Novak of the Oxford Clinical Artificial Intelligence in Research (OxCAIR) group, the project focused on deploying the Lunit INSIGHT CXR tool. This AI-powered system analyzes chest radiographs (CXRs) to detect ten different lung abnormalities using deep learning algorithms. As a physiotherapist with limited expertise in Radiology AI technology, I found this project to be an excellent opportunity to contribute from a different perspective. I managed Information Governance, ensuring compliance with data handling and storage regulations. I also supported the project through the Technology Advisory Group, providing evidence on integrating AI technologies into clinical workflows. Additionally, I oversaw Clinical Safety, working closely with the PACS Team to ensure the AI deployment was safe and effective. Unfortunately, the project faced a significant setback due to a change in funding, pushing it beyond the achievable milestones within the Fellowship time. However, this opened new opportunities for exploration. I worked with the newly appointed OUH Trust AI policy development team, contributing to the development of an AI deployment guide for clinicians. I also worked on grant applications to secure funding for future AI projects and participated in a Trust review of AVT’s in clinical workflows. Despite the challenges, I have been able to contribute to various AI initiatives and the work undertaken in the first part of the Fellowship can still be completed but at a different time point. I hope to remain part of OxCAIR and continue with AI developments
### Fellowship Testimonial
I have gained more than I hoped for during the NHS Fellowship in Clinical AI. I have learned a new language called AI, dived into learning Python, R, Power BI, and Generative AI. And I proudly know what I don’t know about AI, which is a lot! I fully admit to being unapologetic about telling anyone that needs to know, that non-medics are part of this Fellowship, and we have a voice.  The Fellowship has been a truly wonderful experience. Employing an older person in the later stages of her career was a brave move by the Fellowship and Supervisors and, one I am wholly grateful for. I thought I knew what I might learn but it has been so much more fulfilling and rewarding. My advice to anyone who is appointed to the Fellowship ‘dive in’, take up all the opportunities, try not to control the direction too much – AI is Lava! Embrace the changing nature of AI and ultimately work hard, learn, adopt, grasp these 12 months with everything your brain can handle as something will come from it. Post Fellowship I fully intend on keeping my AI skills alive, develop opportunities, challenge AHP organisations to make sure AHPS have the skills and knowledge to lead on AI technology in their professional domains. Directly because of this Fellowship learning I have been appointed to the Subject Access data Review Committee for the Secure Data Environment in Thames Valley and Surrey. I have career opportunities to be part of AI deployment in the AHP space at local Trust level and with professional groups. I’m so grateful to the Fellowship, Dr James Vaz, Iblal Rakha, Dr Alex Novak, OxCAIR and most of all Dr Sarim Ather for giving me this opportunity to be an AI know-it-all, even if I must leave that nomenclature at home each day I go to work.

### Links
[Article: digitalhealth.net](https://archive.ph/5AEoJ)<br>