---
layout: fellow
team-member-name: Iblal Rakha
job-role: Fellow in Clinical AI, Cohort 3
---
### Fellowship Bio
An Informatics Pharmacist with expertise in healthcare data science, large language models, and AI deployment. I hold an MPharm from UCL and an MSc in AI from Leeds, and focuses on responsible AI adoption, digitalisation, and digital health innovation.
### Fellowship Project
##### _Deployment of Prostate Intelligence at OUH_
##### Oxford University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust

As part of the NHS Fellowship in Clinical AI, I set out to explore how we can safely introduce cutting edge artificial intelligence into the NHS, beginning with a tool that supports prostate cancer diagnosis. Working with the Oxford Clinical AI Research (OxCAIR) group, our goal was to deploy an AI model that identifies, describes, and highlights prostate lesions on scans. This technology can assist radiologists by providing quicker and more consistent assessments, ultimately helping improve patient care. More broadly, I wanted to understand how such technologies can move from the research stage into clinical use safely and effectively. My role involved leading the deployment process at Oxford University Hospitals. I gathered the required technical documentation, secured internal approvals, and presented the case for adoption to clinical stakeholders. I also worked with colleagues at OxCAIR to create guidance on how to assess, implement and monitor AI tools at the Trust. Alongside this, I was responsible for monitoring a lung nodule detection algorithm that had undergone a software update. This was particularly significant, as the update led to a patient receiving unnecessary radiation. I investigated the differences between the versions and identified steps to improve future monitoring of such updates. Key milestones include gaining internal approval for the prostate AI tool and producing a best practice framework for future deployments. The next phase will focus on full clinical rollout and exploring opportunities to apply similar tools in NHS pharmacy services, which remain relatively untouched by AI innovation. The fellowship has given me valuable insights and placed me in a strong position to support safe and effective use of AI across the NHS.
### Fellowship Testimonial
Graduating has been a great experience. I have gained a thorough understanding of how to assess, deploy, and monitor AI technologies safely within the NHS. The fellowship exposed me to industry leaders, hospital directors, and experts who shared invaluable insights on navigating regulatory frameworks and ensuring patient safety. This experience has broadened my perspective beyond traditional pharmacy roles, equipping me with skills that bridge clinical practice, technology, and innovation. What I enjoyed most was being part of a community of like minded professionals passionate about using AI to improve healthcare. Looking ahead, this fellowship has opened doors for me to champion AI within NHS pharmacy services, a field often overlooked but full of potential. 
